.TH GIT-AGENTS 1 "May 2026" "git-agents 0.1.0" "Git Manual"
.SH NAME
git-agents \- Git-native coding agent workflow extension
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B git agents
.I command
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B git-agents
.I command
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B gitagents-dashboard
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B git-agents
adds an agent workflow command surface to Git repositories.
Git runs it as an external subcommand: when
.B git agents
is invoked, Git looks for an executable named
.B git-agents
on
.BR PATH .
.PP
Runtime state is stored under the repo-local GitAgents directory:
.PP
.RS
.B .git-agents/state/
.RE
.PP
This path is added to
.BR .gitignore
during init/install. GitAgents-owned protocol and command helpers are installed
under
.BR .git-agents/ ,
outside the ignored state directory.
.PP
The runtime state is filesystem-backed. Tasks, jobs, transcripts, logs, roles,
and tool state remain inspectable with ordinary shell tools.
.PP
.B gitagents-dashboard
is a separate foreground web viewer. It reads running GitAgents repositories
from links in
.BR ~/.gitagents/instances/
and does not start, stop, or supervise agents. It is installed as a global
Python package entry point, not as a repo-local
.BR .git-agents/tools/
helper.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B init
Initialize repository-local runtime state under
.BR .git-agents/state .
This materializes packaged command helpers under
.BR .git-agents/bin ,
launcher and UI helpers under
.BR .git-agents/tools ,
roles under
.BR .git-agents/roles ,
default team configuration under
.BR .git-agents/team.toml ,
and installs
.BR .git-agents/AGENTS.md .
.TP
.B install
Alias for
.BR init .
.TP
.B init --tracked-config
Initialize runtime state and also create the optional
.BR .git-agents/specs/
directory.
.TP
.B update
Refresh package-managed command helpers and
.BR .git-agents/AGENTS.md
together. This does not refresh role files by default.
.TP
.B update --roles
Also refresh packaged default role templates under
.BR .git-agents/roles/ .
.TP
.B start
Start the agent supervisor. The supervisor launches the console runner and each
configured team agent, then keeps them running.
When the console is enabled, it also launches a forwarder for pending jobs whose
role is
.BR console .
By default it also starts a console heartbeat that sends
.B heartbeat
messages immediately and then every 15 minutes.
GitAgents is a Pi-based agentic system. Packaged queued agents require
.B pi
as their runtime.
.TP
.B start --heartbeat MINUTES
Set the console heartbeat interval in minutes.
.TP
.B start --no-heartbeat
Disable the console heartbeat.
.TP
.B start --no-console
Start only the configured team agents. This also disables the console heartbeat.
.TP
.B stop
Stop the supervisor and its managed processes.
.TP
.B restart
Stop and start the supervisor. Supports the same console heartbeat options as
.BR start .
.TP
.B status
Show repository state, supervisor status, and task and job counts.
.TP
.B log [-f] [agent]
Print an agent transcript. The default agent is
.BR console .
Use
.B -f
to follow the transcript.
.TP
.B prompt [--quiet] [message]
Send a message to the running console agent. If no message argument is provided,
standard input is used.
By default, this command prints the console transcript for the current turn.
Use
.B -q
or
.B --quiet
to send the prompt and leave the response only in the log.
.TP
.B rules show
Print the GitAgents-owned generic agent protocol.
.TP
.B role list
List effective roles and whether each role is package-provided or repo-local.
.TP
.B role show name
Print the effective text for a role.
.TP
.B role add name [--from template]
Create a repo-local role.
.TP
.B role edit name
Materialize and edit a repo-local role.
.TP
.B role diff [name]
Compare repo-local roles against their packaged templates.
.TP
.B role reset name --yes
Reset a role from the packaged template.
.TP
.B team list
List configured team agents.
.TP
.B team show [agent]
Show the effective team configuration or one configured agent.
.TP
.B team add agent --role role [--engine engine] [--model model]
Add an agent to
.BR .git-agents/team.toml .
Supported engines are
.BR pi
and
.BR pi-interactive .
.TP
.B team remove agent
Remove an agent from future starts.
.TP
.B team set agent [--role role] [--engine engine] [--model model]
Update one configured agent.
.TP
.B team edit
Materialize and edit the team configuration.
.TP
.B tasks list
List tasks from runtime state.
.TP
.B tasks create task spec-file
Create a task and enqueue its initial planner job.
.TP
.B tasks show task
Show task details.
.TP
.B tasks comment task message
Append a comment to a task.
.TP
.B tasks state task open|done [-m message]
Set task state.
.TP
.B tasks result task result-file
Record a task result and mark the task done.
.TP
.B jobs list
List jobs from runtime state.
.TP
.B jobs create job --role role --task task spec-file
Create a job linked to a task. Jobs with role
.B console
are forwarded to the interactive console when the console is enabled.
.TP
.B jobs reset job [-m message] [--force]
Force a job back to pending and clear its owner.
.TP
.B jobs kill job [-m message] [--force]
Stop the process recorded for a claimed or running job and mark it failed.
.TP
.B jobs orphans
List claimed or running jobs whose owner state is missing.
.TP
.B jobs reset-orphans
Reset orphaned claimed or running jobs back to pending.
.TP
.B jobs reap [minutes]
Reset jobs whose lock directories have been stale longer than the threshold.
.TP
.B agents list
List runtime agent directories and current jobs.
.TP
.B agents reset agent [-m message] [--force] [--no-kill]
Reset one runtime agent, requeue its active jobs, and signal recorded processes
unless
.B --no-kill
is supplied.
.TP
.B spec build
Reserved for the planned spec builder workflow.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B .git-agents/state/
Repository-local execution state.
.TP
.B .git-agents/bin/
GitAgents queue and state command helpers.
.TP
.B .git-agents/tools/
GitAgents agent launchers and web UI assets.
.TP
.B .git-agents/state/tasks/
Filesystem task state.
.TP
.B .git-agents/state/jobs/
Filesystem job queue state.
.TP
.B .git-agents/state/agents/
Agent transcripts, prompts, and durable per-agent state.
.TP
.B .git-agents/AGENTS.md
Repo-local generic agent protocol installed by
.B init
and refreshed by
.BR update .
This file is GitAgents-owned system protocol, not repository policy.
.TP
.B .git-agents/roles/
Repo-local role definitions used by launched agents.
.TP
.B .git-agents/team.toml
Optional tracked team configuration.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
git agents init
git agents status
git agents start
gitagents-dashboard
git agents prompt "summarize current status"
git agents prompt --quiet "summarize current status"
git agents log -f
.fi
.PP
Materialize tracked configuration:
.PP
.nf
git agents init --tracked-config
git agents role edit implementer
git agents team edit
.fi
.PP
Create a task and inspect the initial planner job:
.PP
.nf
git agents tasks create my-task /tmp/my-task.md
git agents tasks list
git agents jobs list
git agents jobs reset my-task-plan -m "retry"
git agents jobs kill my-task-plan -m "stop now"
git agents jobs create notify-console-1 --role console --task my-task /tmp/console-note.md
git agents agents reset planner-1
.fi
.PP
Package-managed tools under
.B .git-agents/bin
are runtime internals for agents and advanced debugging. Prefer
.B git agents
porcelain commands for normal use.
.SH HELP
Use
.B git agents -h
or
.B git agents COMMAND -h
for argparse-generated command help.
.PP
When this manpage is installed in a directory visible to
.BR man (1),
.B git help agents
and
.B git agents --help
open this manual.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Commands return zero on success and nonzero on errors.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git (1),
.BR git-rev-parse (1)
